# Quantifyre


Centralized data security monitoring

Informant is a novel approach to information security, in that, rather than try to cleverly monitor external connections,
or apply complex data access policies, Informant is designed to be installed on every computer within an organization to 
quietly monitor how all data is being used. Utilizing driver level access, all storage activity that occurs on a computer 
is securely intercepted, and metadata about the activity is logged. Each time data is created, copied, modified, read or
deleted, Informant logs important information about the operating system, process, network, computer, date, file, and
user. This comprehensive logging produces a very clear record of how a user is utilizing the information on a computer, 
and what the intentions of that user might be. Whether users are simply performing normal work functions, or are trying 
to subvert access control policies, the Informant system is fully capable of keeping records of real-time data interactions
on every computer within an organization.


# Compilation

Visual Studio 2012 or later is required.

Eldos Callback Filter is required. See https://www.eldos.com/

## Software System for Data Leak Detection and Prevention


### Abstract

According to the nonprofit organization Privacy Rights Clearinghouse, more than two hundred million records were lost in security breaches in the United States between 2005 and 2008. At an average organizational cost of $179 per record, that amounts to over $35 billion of loss in the US due to stolen information in just three years. It is apparent that the current solutions for protecting confidential organizational data are just not good enough and a new methodology for detecting and preventing leaks needs to be created. Quantifyre LLC is a data leak prevention startup that has formed around building the innovative software, Informant, to prevent negligent and malicious employees from leaking organizational data. Right now, Informant is capable of tracking every file on every organizational system and can report a complete history of any file at any given moment. The system provides the information to find out exactly how, where and when a file might have been put at risk. This proposal outlines a process for taking the existing Informant software, and expanding it with research into advanced data analytics and dynamic data encryption. The goal of the research is to provide the best means to ensure the security of confidential data, by protecting it from malicious or negligent employees. The proposed contract includes, sale of an unlimited usage license of the existing Informant source code, schema and binaries to the NSA, and one year of software development to research innovative data protection and risk evaluation techniques for the fields of data leak prevention and security intelligence. There is a need to explore a new paradigm in information security in order to secure corporate and government secrets from internal threats that risk the nation's economic and strategic security amongst a developing world. This proposal is in place to pursue funding to explore answers on how to stop harmful data leaks and protect the nation's valuable information.

### Project Description

Informant is a novel approach to information security, in that, rather than try to cleverly monitor external connections, or apply complex data access policies, Informant is designed to be installed on every computer within an organization to quietly monitor how all data is being used. Utilizing driver level access, all storage activity that occurs on a computer is securely intercepted, and metadata about the activity is logged. Each time data is created, copied, modified, read or deleted, Informant logs important information about the operating system, process, network, computer, date, file, and user. This comprehensive logging produces a very clear record of how a user is utilizing the information on a computer, and what the intentions of that user might be. Whether users are simply performing normal work functions, or are trying to subvert access control policies, the Informant system is fully capable of keeping records of real-time data interactions on every computer within an organization.

Functioning at a driver level, Informant is the only system that works in real-time identifying high risk actions as they are occurring. Informant maintains secure records even while a computer is disconnected from its primary network database, as illustrated in Figure 1. This tiered storage system allows tracking even while users are attempting to hide their actions off the network. If data is being leaked through an organization's computers, no matter where the computer is, Informant will detect it. Offline activity monitoring is unique, in that typically monitoring is done at a network level because an employee is fully trusted once they log in to a computer with the right credentials. The broad assumption of trust leaves gaping holes in most organizations' security policy. Classically, once information is on an employee's system, there has been no way to track how that information is used. However, Informant provides an abundance of information about how an organization's files are being used, and can quickly provide the exact methods used to leak important files. The highly detailed metadata that Informant collects allows for the rebuilding of a complete history of every file, from the file's creation, to the moment it leaves a trusted system. Informant is a completely unique approach to data security because it protects organizations from their own trusted users.

Expanding Informant's capabilities to include a comprehensive data protection and security intelligence system is key to creating a powerful tool for data loss prevention. The proposed contract includes one year of research following two distinct information security research tracks. Each research track seeks to leverage the unique capabilities of Informant to enhance the current state of information security knowledge.

The first research track involves building an information rich dashboard with the capabilities to leverage Informant's rich metadata to monitor information security. The goal of the research will be to use data analysis of Informant's database to monitor specific real time threats, as well as allowing an information security officer to perform more complex analysis of threats across the organization. Basic charts, graphs and tables aren't satisfactory for exploring the relationships generated by Informant's new model of information security, and novel forms of data presentation will be researched to examine the best methods for navigating the complex web of information. Both human guided exploration and automated computational analysis of data will be important, as the two systems can work in harmony in detecting and confirming potential leaks as quick as possible. While initial research will focus on sensibly assessing risk on a per-system basis, future iterations of the interface could detect organized multi-user efforts to subvert data access policies. Potential future capabilities include cross-computer tracking of files and multi-user interactions, to understand how employees are sharing information at an organizational level. Existing information security interfaces do not deal with user activity at the detailed scale that Informant provides, as such, a novel interface is needed to be able to explore this rich data and make sense of the complex web of information. Without such an interface, organizations will be left in the dark, using only blind trust to hope that employees don't put proprietary and confidential data at risk. This research seeks an active solution to ensuring employees are using data in the way an organization sees fit.

The second research track consists of a completely reimagined way to protect data from malicious or negligent users. Existing systems seek to protect data from outside parties with whole disk encryption and complex access control policies. However, no system protects data when the threat originates from someone trusted, who already has access to the organization's secure systems. The core of the research will center on the idea that every user should have their actions policed by a system that dynamically evaluates data safety. To ensure that even trusted users can have their data access controlled, files need to be encrypted in a manner such that only the access control system can decrypt them. Once all confidential data is securely encrypted, a policy of trust evaluation is executed to determine if each file access should be presented with an encrypted or decrypted view of the data. Research will focus on utilizing dynamic system environment analysis to determine if an attempt to access data should be allowed. At the driver level, information access can be regulated dynamically, so if a user is opening a file for normal work activities the file will be decrypted. However, any access of the data that presents a potential threat, such as email, removable drives, cloud storage, browser access, or instant messaging, would be presented with an encrypted view of the file. This dynamic threat evaluation would ensure that any potential information leaks would result in the loss of only encrypted files. Furthermore, using the capability to intercept file access, extremely high threat access attempts can be entirely denied, so the system would not even see that the file exists. Dynamic denial of access to files that are already on employee computers is completely novel, and would prevent even encrypted data from being leaked from the organization. However, complete denial of file access based on automated evaluation carries the risk of potentially hindering normal work, when safe activities are mischaracterized as unsafe. As such, dynamic file access denial should only be used in the most extreme of circumstances. The real-time threat evaluation, as presented in Figure 2, gives an organization control over how files are used, control that no other software provides. Because data is always encrypted and only unencrypted views of the data are presented to select users and applications, information security is extended outside the bounds of an organization, creating a catch-all system that prevents raw data from leaking into untrusted hands.

No system can ensure absolute information security. However, a system which doesn't assume trust in the user can create hurdles to leaking data that can deter a malicious user, or prevent the user from taking the mass amount of data that is so often associated with data loss. In fact, in 2012 alone, a single data loss incident could account for anywhere from five thousand to over one hundred thousand lost records. Furthermore, in the US in 2012, the average organizational cost of a single data breach was five million dollars and malicious activity accounted for forty-one percent of these data loss incidents, while thirty-three percent of incidents where accounted for through negligent employees. Any hurdles which require leakers expend excessive hours simply trying to interchange stolen data from an encrypted form to something usable, can significantly reduce data loss numbers. In total, our research is focused on bringing a novel approach to securing information that expands on simple single or multi-factor authentication. The proposed research would result in a system which utilizes dynamic risk evaluation to control data access, log all data interactions, and present a rich user interface for threat notification and evaluation.


